As the days of the samurai ended
and the Shogun's government faded
an assassin called "Battosai",
or "Pure Drawn Sword"
roamed the streets of Kyoto,
terrorising the Shogun's forces
with cold-blooded,
almost supernatural strength.
The "Boshin War" brought Japan
to the verge of its modern age.
January 1868
The Battle of Toba-Fushimi
There! The Shogun's men!
Battosai the Killer! Where are you?
Where are you?
Saito! The Shogun's dog!
En garde!
Come on, Battosai!
We've won!
It's the Emperor's banner!
You are now rebels
against His Majesty!
We've won!
So it's come, has it?
The new age...
At last.
Battosai!
It doesn't end here.
Though the world may change,
men like us
still live and die by the sword.
Why?
Why have I been left alive?
This sword...
Could this belong to Battosai?
Tokyo, 1878
General Yamagata will speak!
Salute!
As you were!
Over the past 10 years,
Japan has taken the Western powers
as an example
and walked a new path.
The new government's authority
has spread far and wide,
bringing our land
prosperity and security.
The age when fear and violence
held sway
is over!
Salute!
People are weak.
They pay lip service to fine ideals,
but there are three things
for which they become beasts.
For themselves, for money
and for pleasure.
Excuse me.
You've done it.
Good job, Megumi.
Thank you.
This new type of opium
will turn people into animals.
You may go.
We only need one person
who knows the process.
Eeny, meeny,
miny mo.
Which one
will it be?
Let's let God decide.
Thank you!
Come on!
Let him go!
Leave him
to Battosai.
Toasted dumplings!
Get 'em while they're hot!
One, please.
Justification for Execution
He was an undercover officer.
A warning.
"Battosai the Killer" again?
Why does he leave these things?
It's not him.
The "Justification" should say
why you've killed someone.
This doesn't.
It's not Battosai's style.
Huh?
"Battosai the Killer"?
Of the Kamiya School?
"invigorate the heart"?
You!
The Edict says "no swords",
and you've got one.
You're Battosai!
Your evil deeds end here.
En garde!
Hey, hey, hey! Whoa! Wait!
I'm not him!
Your humble servant is naught
but a poor wanderer.
You believe me?
Then why do you have that sword?
This is a back-blade.
A "back-blade"?
See?
The cutting edge is on the back.
The opposite to a normal sword.
That won't kill...
No.
I thank you.
Who is that man?
He claims to be
from my fencing school.
He kills people and leaves letters.
Just like in the old days.
Huh?
Sir!
A visitor.
I'm surprised a police officer
would come calling alone.
Care for one?
What's that?
Someone calling himself "Battosai"
has killed an undercover officer.
The ghost of a samurai comes back
10 years later as a murderer?
Your Shinbashi warehouse...
That warehouse?
We're not using it right now.
We wanted it for imported goods,
but things haven't worked out.
If you really want to search it,
there are procedures to follow.
Officials can no longer
do as they wish
in the new age.
Don't push me.
That ghost may not realise
times have changed.
Food!
Look at that bunch.
Former samurai,
cut adrift in the new Japan.
I've hired them
to keep them from starving.
They're men who can fight.
Left alone, they'd cause chaos.
You never know
what a hungry dog will bite.
But looking at you, I'd say
you used to be a samurai, too.
I still am.
That's why I don't like you.
Careful.
They say cops wait for evidence,
but I don't.
Sir! Megumi's gone!
What? She got away?
We've got a cop on the take.
He says a woman
came to them for protection.
Damn that woman!
Don't worry about it!
If she talks about the opium,
she's guilty, too.
Once a woman falls that low,
you never know what she'll do.
How would you know?
What?
I know women!
Shut up!
Get that woman back here
right away.
Hands off!
What do you want?
I'll do her.
Don't kill her, Jine.
She's the only one who knows
how to make Spiderweb.
Do what you have to...
Battosai.
Look, you came to us.
Tell us what's going on.
I give up.
What's happening?
That Way!
This way!
Move!
Battosai?
Come quietly!
What happened?
Who are you?
Don't move!
Halt!
This isn't magic.
It's a technique.
My sword-spirit
uses your fear to paralyse you.
It's called "one side of the soul".
Can't breathe?
The more you fear,
the worse it gets.
A cat!
Hi, kitty!
Hey...
Stop!
You're Battosai?
Why are you doing evil
in the name of the Kamiya School?
It's because of you
that the school my father left me...
Your father? What about him?
He taught
that fencing
celebrates life.
The sword is a way of life,
not death.
A woman challenges me
with a wooden sword?
Quiet!
This stick won't help you.
A sword lives on blood.
Die knowing that.
You forgot this.
Who are you?
Whoever.
Are you the man
who calls himself "Battosai"?
Those scars...
That speed...
So you're the one they talk about.
It doesn't work on you.
We must run.
Come quietly, Battosai!
So it was worth surviving...
Bring rope!
How's your arm?
Battosai!
Get him!
That way.
This way!
I'm grateful,
but I wouldn't have cared
either way.
You should tend to that arm.
"Kaoru Kamiya,
Assistant Instructor"...
It was always just a small school.
But a lot of people came here
who were fond of my father.
But for the last six months,
since this "Battosai" appeared,
no one comes.
I have to stop him,
the sooner the better.
I wouldn't.
He's much better than you.
It's important in fencing
to know your own limits.
You know what will happen
the next time you meet.
The dignity of a school
is not worth your life.
"Invigorate the Heart"
A sword is not for killing with.
The sword brings people to life.
That is the ideal of this school.
To see that soiled by murder...
A wanderer
wouldn't understand!
The sword brings life...
Anyway,
that arm should keep you here.
I'm sure your late father
would not want his daughter
to give her life for his school.
Good bye.
Look at this!
He's declared war on us!
Kamiya Fencing Dojo
Wanderer?
Oh, it's you...
You're not happy to see
Squire Yahiko Myojin?
Oh, be quiet.
Give me breakfast!
This hungry orphan needs a hot meal!
Stop it. First we train.
Get cleaning.
Who are you?
We want this dojo.
What?
You'll get a good price.
A certain gentleman will pay well.
It won't be a bad deal for you.
What?
I'm not selling my father's dojo!
For just an assistant instructor,
you got a lot of nerve, honey.
Especially when your Battosai
is a murderer.
He's not one of us!
Just let it go.
Nobody comes
to this dojo now, anyway.
GET busy!
Don't!
Stop it!
Cut that out!
Yahiko!
Stop it, will you!
Who is this kid?
I am Yahiko Myojin,
defender of the weak!
Let him go!
Hey!
Get tough first, then talk tough!
Yeah!
Your school says
the sword invigorates, huh?
Let's see you take that sword
and invigorate yourself.
Take your shoes off!
The sword brings life?
You're dreaming!
No shoes!
Swords are for mayhem, and killing.
That's what fencing is all about.
Now I'm mad.
Wanderer!
Move!
Who are you?
I agree
her words are those of one
whose hands are still clean.
She is dreaming.
The sword is a weapon
meant for killing.
No fine words will change
the truth of that.
But I vastly prefer
Miss Kaoru's fond dreams
to that truth.
Nonsense!
Fight him!
Go on!
Get up there!
Battosai fought in
the "High Heaven" style.
It is an old style,
suited to one against many.
I wear this sword
so that I do not kill.
"'8 you!
You?
Kaoru!
Careful!
This man's dead!
What's going on here?
- Is that him?
- No!
They attacked us.
But nobody's dead.
They're just knocked out.
In here!
Them!
Hey!
Swords are illegal, you know!
Take them!
What happened?
It was my fault.
All of this happened because of me.
The dojo wasn't involved.
Come on!
Wait!
Wanderer...
Yes, ma'am?
At least tell me your name.
Wait!
Kenshin Himura.
Move!
"Kenshin"...
"The heart of the sword"?
Open up!
New prisoner.
Move!
Open up!
Scars in a cross...
So it is you.
It's been a while,
Battosai.
I haven't seen you in 10 years,
since Toba-Fushimi.
We need to talk.
Come out.
Battosai the Killer?
Where have you been hiding
all these years?
Mr Yamagata!
There were rumours
of a man who could fight
going around helping people.
I had them checked out.
Saito?
We've all gone different ways
since 10 years ago,
but all of us
still hoping for a better land.
Now he calls himself Goro Fujita.
He helps me out.
What would you like?
This is being dealt openly.
"Spiderweb".
It looks like regular opium,
but it's completely different.
It's much more addictive.
Opium will destroy a country.
A land as powerful as China
couldn't control it.
Now part of the country
is an English colony.
I am but a wanderer.
Why do you tell me this?
The people making this stuff
probably have bigger plans.
We need your help.
Join with our army
and put these arms of yours
to good use.
I have no wish to serve as a killer.
A killer?
That was all to restore
the Emperor's authority!
No guts any more?
Is this a sword?
Without killing, who can you protect?
Even with this blade, I can protect
the kind of people I meet now.
Let's see.
All fine words aside,
can you even protect yourself?
Put up your sword.
No!
When a man's own blade faces him,
he suffers.
Like this.
Remember how it felt?
I have abandoned my past.
I will kill no more.
Enough!
My apologies.
Not at all.
Let him go.
Hey, Kaoru!
Kaoru!
Sorry! Are you OK?
Help me!
They're after me!
Please!
Miss Kaoru...
Where will you go?
Come with me.
You saved us.
You know I was a killer...
No, I don't.
The man I met is a wanderer
named Kenshin.
Everyone has things
they don't want to talk about.
Right?
Here.
Take it.
Let's go.
Come on!
Come in.
Thank you.
Yahiko...
Yahiko Myojin.
He trains here, sort of.
He moved in.
I'm just here
cos you need students.
He's rude, but he has potential.
I'm just here to get tough!
Yes, I know.
Kenshin's moving in, too.
That makes me "Elder Brother".
I'm honoured.
Uh... Right!
Hey!
Introduce me, too.
Who are you?
She was wet, so I heated the bath.
Without asking?
And who's that gentleman?
Hey, wait...
Kenshin the Wanderer.
Oh, so you're him?
The boy told me.
Megumi Takani.
Pleased to meet you.
The pleasure's mine.
Here's a change of clothes.
I thank you.
My father was a big man,
so these are from when he was young.
Maybe
they're too gaudy?
No. They will be fine.
The sword brings life...
Come in!
So anyway.
Why are you here?
Oh, dear! She seems to think
I'm in the way.
You're not from around here.
Where do you come from?
Not telling. Mystery becomes a girl.
It's ready.
There.
I thank you.
Eat all you like.
This is to thank you.
Then...
Very good.
You see?
That's hot!
Be careful!
I know!
Kaoru...
I hear you had some trouble.
Tae...
Don't give in.
We've all decided
we're not going to sell.
Welcome!
That's Kanryuu Takeda.
He's a rich businessman.
Washroom?
That way.
Sir!
Excuse me!
Are you the hero who saved
the local dojo from 10 men?
I am a merchant
involved in trade.
Show him.
I'll be blunt.
With this, we wish to hire you.
For the work of 10,
10 times the pay.
How about it?
Will you be a bodyguard?
No, thank you.
This isn't enough?
"The hungry samurai picks his teeth,
pretending he has eaten"...
That's all very well.
But it's money that talks
in this new age.
Pride won't bring you a penny
these days.
It's the ones with that pride
who fall furthest and hardest.
Look at all the brothels.
They're full of samurai wives
and daughters.
Every gang of thieves these days
is all former samurai.
It's time to forget
you were ever a samurai
and learn how to
enjoy life.
That's rude.
Without money,
you don't eat beef.
I'll take the money, then.
Sanosuke!
Hire me.
Why you?
I'm a street fighter.
I just got out of jail. I'm broke.
Are you tough enough
to earn this?
Would the legendary killer
care to try me,
Battosai?
Hire me if I beat him.
The establishment will suffer.
Let's go outside.
Just what I wanted to hear!
Let's all go outside!
Fight! Fight!
This thing
was made to cut down horses.
It's 400 years old.
It hasn't been maintained,
so there's no edge on it.
But...
It'll still knock a man flat.
Hold it!
Battosai...
Choshu clan assassin
from age 14 to 19,
one of the "Patriots of Restoration".
But no one's seen him
for the last 10 years.
Move!
Out of the way!
Put up your sword.
Draw yours
and fight!
I have no wish to.
Why not?
We have no quarrel.
Would a man like you
serve a man like that?
Well?
What's wrong?
Well? What's wrong?
Come on, street fighter!
Flatten him!
Shut up! Don't tell me how to fight!
Forget it.
I'll just end up in jail again.
Sorry to bother you!
Go back inside, everybody.
Show's over!
My apologies.
Let's eat.
We're wasting good beef.
He's the real thing.
Be careful.
We don't want Battosai angry at us.
Yes, sir!
Not enough blood.
It's still not enough blood!
This is my way.
I am the true
Battosai the Killer!
Battosai again...
He kills hoodlums and cops...
Whose side is he on?
Once you kill,
there is no going back.
That is what killing means.
Go on ahead.
Come on.
Hey!
I'm coming!
The men who attacked your dojo,
you could have killed them yourself.
If you had,
these officers wouldn't have died.
That back-blade of yours
is very useful, isn't it?
Move!
Out of the way!
Will you be an assassin
for the cause of the new age?
Kyoto, 14 years earlier
Only if the lives I take
bring a new age
of peace.
Can you believe a guy getting married
in these crazy times?
Sorry!
Aw, why not?
He's a happy guy.
I'm jealous!
Who goes there? State your name!
You're Battosai?
You Choshu rebel!
Die!
I don't want to die!
I can't die now! I can't!
There's someone I care for.
I can't die now!
There's someone I love!
I can't die!
I can't die now!
Justification for Execution
How do I serve the new age
by killing those who are its future?
Am I doing right?
You're a murderer.
Kenshin!
Miss Kaoru?
You hadn't come back.
I was worried
that maybe you'd gone away.
I'm hungry.
Magnificent!
I don't believe this thing!
And the plan?
Everything's ready.
We'll build a dock at that dojo
and ship opium... To where?
All over Japan.
No!
The world!
With the money we take
from the beasts it creates,
we buy guns!
The Kanryuu Empire!
I will rule this new age!
It begins.
Awaken, Battosai.
Megumi...
So here you are.
You're mixed up with opium,
and that's a fact.
You're stuck with us,
or with opium, at least.
You're one of us, so I'll warn you.
Watch out.
Megumi's rice...
Kenshin's soup...
And fish...
Kaoru fried the fish.
If you want to get married,
you'd better learn how to cook.
You'll lose him.
Quiet!
You know what?
I need some new students.
This kid's making me rusty.
Look who's talking!
Calm down, both of you.
Let's eat.
Kaoru!
Is anyone here?
Help us!
She went numb and started gasping.
We tried to find a doctor...
And?
Every doctor around here
vanished two days ago!
We're at our wits' end!
Watch out.
That dojo will be mine.
Kaoru! Kaoru!
Help!
Kaoru!
- Help!
- What's wrong?
You!
Go inside!
In here?
What's going on?
Plague?
Somebody get a doctor!
Right here.
Fever, lethargy...
Rat poison?
Are you sure?
They need to vomit.
Bring water.
But not from the wells.
They might be poisoned.
Go buy some castor oil.
Get towels and kettles.
You!
Buy all the water you can.
Is there a healer in the next village?
Yes.
I'll write a list.
We have to move fast!
Yes, ma'am!
Here's water!
He'll pay for this.
These are people's lives!
Miss Megumi,
isn't it time
you told us who you were?
Her name's "Takani"?
Megumi?
You know her?
There's nobody in medicine
who doesn't know
the Takani family.
They're famous doctors.
They have been for generations.
But they were on the wrong side
in the Boshin War.
It's said they were all killed.
But it looks like maybe
a daughter survived.
You were an assassin, right?
Shouldn't you tell me about yourself
before you make demands of me?
I'll bet
those hands have killed many.
And those scars?
Battle scars?
Like a medal?
This scar
came from a young samurai.
And this one
came from the woman
he was to marry.
I have killed more men
than I can...
I've never killed.
But I had no parents or family
to depend on.
Kanryuu took me in.
I was his woman.
We used each other.
He used me to make opium,
and I used him
to stay alive.
To stay alive.
Opium!
No!
Shut up!
Keep quiet!
Kanryuu's got about 250 men.
Some are samurai, good fighters,
cut adrift by the new age.
I'm coming.
Kenshin!
Look!
Megumi's gone!
Oh, no...
I'll come, too.
You stay here.
Your school cannot afford to lose you.
But...
This'll take us all night.
Have breakfast for five,
and the bathwater hot.
I'm coming!
Hold it!
You'll just be in the way.
- Shut up!
- Yahiko...
Stay here.
Guard Miss Kaoru.
I knew
you'd be back.
This is the only place you have
to come back to.
Tomorrow you get to work.
I didn't come back
to make opium.
I'm here to kill you.
Don't worry.
We're stuck with each other.
I'll kill myself, too.
Don't just stand there!
Don't be stupid.
Thus I atone!
You bitch!
After I treated you so nice!
He's here.
That man.
Kanryuu!
Hey!
Get out here
and we'll kick some butt!
Battosai!
It's her!
It's bad manners to come barging
onto someone's property.
Oh, yeah?
Don't hold back!
Kill them!
Go on!
Kill!
Here's money!
Here's money! Kill them!
All the money you want!
Do it!
Kill them!
I don't get it. Why?
Why is Battosai doing this?
What does he stand to gain?
If he wanted to gain,
he'd be in the army by now.
The "Patriots of the Restoration"
are all like that.
Tell me about it.
Get that thing ready.
You mean...
Just do it!
In business,
you prepare for the worst!
Yes, sir.
Take the woman away.
Do something for me.
Where's four-eyes?
Upstairs.
So who fights me?
I Will.
Bare fists.
Time for a street fighter.
Get going.
I thank you.
So you're Battosai?
Where's Miss Megumi?
Is that woman worth saving?
No one is not worth saving.
Fine words.
And why have you
sold your soul to Kanryuu?
My Soul?
I took you all
for finer men than that.
Don't be stupid.
I was starving
in this insipid new age of yours.
Hey! Hey!
Kenshin! Are you OK?
Die.
What's with that sword?
It's my pledge
not to kill.
Not so fast!
Wait! Wait! Wait!
What for?
Want some?
Here.
Chicken?
The poor bird! I'm a vegetarian.
Wine?
Sure.
With all the men you've killed,
you insult me with that blade?
To fight with fists,
you need to use your head!
It's been fun.
Now you're ready to fight, huh?
You've pledged not to kill?
Can you end this without killing?
Yes, I can.
Then try!
What a party!
Let's go.
Wait!
It's not over yet.
Fight!
Yes, it is.
I love this!
Cigar.
Light.
Sanosuke!
At least let me have a smoke!
You wrecked my house!
You wrecked it!
Where's the great Battosai?
I'll show him!
I'll help you kill him.
How did you get here?
That kid came to the police.
Yahiko?
Well?
Look.
What's the matter?
He can only aim that thing
one way at a time.
Come one and all!
Make yourself at home!
What's wrong?
I give!
I give up.
Whoa! Don't shoot!
We can't fight that thing.
Right, Kenshin?
Come on out. We can't win.
I surrender.
Put your sword down.
Apologise to me.
From down on your knees.
Take your clothes off.
All of them!
Take off your clothes
and kowtow to me!
Yeah, sure!
Damn you!
Over here! Shoot! Shoot!
More! More!
Do you know
what money can't buy?
What you're begging for now.
Life.
No!
At last I get to send you flying.
What?
I'll take it from here.
Get going.
I thank you.
Miss Megumi!
I'm sorry I'm late.
You're fine now.
I'm glad you're safe.
He's got Kaoru!
So you're awake?
Don't look at me like that.
By taking you hostage,
I enrage Battosai.
That anger will make him
the killer he once was.
He should be here soon.
Kenshin!
You're angry.
At you, for involving her,
and at myself for letting you.
Kenshin?
That's right, Battosai.
Get mad!
Miss Kaoru!
Can you kill me with that?
Kenshin!
You didn't expect the back turn?
Not yet, huh?
You're still a long way from
the Battosai you once were.
Miss Kaoru!
My "one side of the soul" technique.
Strong enough to paralyse the lungs.
She's got two minutes.
Jine!
You don't have much time.
Let your sword speak for you.
Nicely done.
If you value your life,
lift the spell on her!
I can't break it.
There are only two ways.
She does it herself,
or you kill me
and end my sword-spirit.
Then...
To the death,
Battosai!
The game is over.
I'm going to kill you.
The Battosai "pure draw" stance.
"High Heaven" style,
twin-dragon strike.
Elbow shattered,
tendons snapped.
You can never duel again.
And now...
I end your life.
For Miss Kaoru,
I will kill one more time.
Kill me.
Die!
Kenshin, no!
She broke it.
Miss Kaoru!
Don't go back to killing!
Killing is wrong!
You mustn't kill, Kenshin!
For the sake
of those you've already killed!
And for
all the people
you've saved!
You don't have to kill
to be of help to someone.
And...
That's...
The new age you fought for!
Miss Kaoru.
I'm going to finish this, Battosai.
Enough.
With one arm,
you have no chance.
This isn't over yet.
At heart, you're a killer.
I'm a killer too, so I know.
Once a killer, always a killer.
I'll watch from Hell as you rave
about being a "wanderer".
You see?
Look what happens if you stop killing
and take up that sham called justice.
Killing gives birth to hatred.
And hatred kills in its turn.
To break that chain,
I carry a sword that will not kill.
When will you ever learn?
So you're leaving?
Wandering is the easy way out.
Our only choice is
to live and die by the sword.
All these smuggled goods!
Make sure you get everybody!
Take me to the port.
Let me get away,
and I'll reward you.
I've got lots of money.
Right in this pocket here.
Can I go get my boot?
It's hard to walk.
Hey, I'll be back!
I'll be back!
Kenshin!
You're up?
Where is he?
Uh, he's...
Oh, no!
Hey!
Kenshin!
You're awake, Miss Kaoru?
Don't jump to conclusions!
Kenshin's going to
make dinner tonight.
I'm starving!
You're home, Kenshin.
I'm home.